docs(use-cases/hermes): add Olares skills, OpenAI API, and restart command updates (#3198)
beclab/Olares: docs/use-cases/hermes.md

The file structure and configuration options match the official defaults. For detailed parameter descriptions, see the [Hermes configuration guide](https://hermes-agent.nousresearch.com/docs/user-guide/configuration).

## Install Olares skills

> Hermes Agent supports installing Olares skills to extend its capabilities. These skills provide integration with Olares applications such as Files, Settings, and Dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hermes Agent supports installing Olares skills to extend its capabilities. These skills provide integration with Olares applications, such as Files, Settings, and Dashboard.
```

> To install Olares skills:

Reviewer: <img width="2380" height="524" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/258ac21e-2a26-4a4a-a4a8-232f05edd48c" />
sometimes these commands does not work, please refer to the screen shot

1. Open the Hermes CLI from the Launchpad.
2. Run the following command to install each skill:

   ```bash
   hermes skills install clawhub/olares-shared --yes
   ```

3. Repeat the command for each of the following skills:
   - `clawhub/olares-market`
   - `clawhub/olares-dashboard`
   - `clawhub/olares-settings`

>    - `clawhub/olares-files`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run the following commands one by one to install the required skills:

   ```bash
   hermes skills install clawhub/olares-shared --yes
   hermes skills install clawhub/olares-market --yes
   hermes skills install clawhub/olares-dashboard --yes
   hermes skills install clawhub/olares-settings --yes
   hermes skills install clawhub/olares-files --yes
  ```
```

Reviewer: Please confirm:
hermes skills install clawhub/olares-shared --yes
hermes skills install clawhub/olares-market --yes --force
hermes skills install clawhub/olares-dashboard --yes --force
hermes skills install clawhub/olares-settings --yes --force
hermes skills install clawhub/olares-files --yes --force

> 4. After install the skills, you need to login to Olares CLI and then you can ask the agent to install apps or read files in Olares.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. After the installation finishes, run the following command to log in to your Olares account. Replace <your-olares-id> with your Olares ID:

   ```bash
   olares-cli profile login --olares-id <your-olares-id>
   ```

   For example:

   ```bash
   olares-cli profile login --olares-id laresprime@olares.com
   ```
4. Follow the prompt to enter your Olares login password. For security, the password is hidden.
5. You can now enter the TUI, and ask the agent to interact with your Olares environment. For example, ask it to install an app from Olares Market.
```

## Call Hermes Agent via OpenAI-compatible API

> Hermes Agent supports being called by other applications through an OpenAI-compatible API, allowing you to integrate it with tools like OpenWebUI and Hermes Workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hermes Agent provides an OpenAI-compatible API, allowing you to integrate it with other applications like OpenWebUI or Hermes Workspace.
```

### Step 1: Enable the Gateway API

1. Open **Settings** > **Applications** > **Hermes Agent**.
2. In the environment variables section, set **API_SERVER_ENABLED** to `true`.
3. Set an **API_SERVER_KEY** value:
   - The key must be at least 8 characters long.
   - Allowed characters: letters, numbers, and common symbols.
   - Avoid placeholder values like `your_api_key`.

> 4. Wait for the application to restart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open Olares Settings, and then go to **Applications** > **Hermes Agent** > **Manage environment variables**.
2. Find **API_SERVER_ENABLED**, click the edit icon, and then set its value to `true`.
3. Click **Confirm**.
4. Find **HERMES_API_SERVER_KEY**, click the edit icon, and then enter the value. Ensure the key meets the following requirements:

    - It must be at least 8 characters long.
    - It can only contain letters, numbers, and these symbols (`-`, `_`, `.`).
    - It cannot be a predictable placeholder value, such as `your_api_key`.
  
5. Click **Confirm**, and then click **Apply**.
```

> ### Step 2: Find the Gateway API URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 2: Get the Gateway API URL
```

> 1. Go back to **Settings** > **Applications** > **Hermes Agent**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to **Applications** > **Hermes Agent** > **Hermes Gateway API**.
```

> 2. Find the **Hermes Gateway API** URL and copy it. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Copy the endpoint URL. For example:
```

   ```
   https://baf3d7172.olaresdemo.olares.com
   ```

### Step 3: Verify the API is running

> Open your browser and navigate to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open your browser and go to your gateway URL appended with `/health`:
```

```
https://<your-gateway-url>/health
```

> If enabled successfully, you will see a response confirming the API is running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the API is enabled successfully, the page displays a response confirming the service is active. For example, `{"status": "ok", "platform": "hermes-agent"}`.

```

> ### Step 4: Connect from another application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 4: Connect your application
```

1. Open the application you want to connect (for example, OpenWebUI).
2. Navigate to the admin panel and select **Connection** or **Models**.
3. Add a new OpenAI-compatible model entry with the following settings:
   - **Base URL**: Your Hermes Gateway API URL + `/v1`
     - For example: `https://baf3d7172.olaresdemo.olares.com/v1`
   - **Auth**: Select **Bearer** and enter the `API_SERVER_KEY` you set in Step 1.
4. Click the refresh button next to the toggle to check the connection.

> 5. Once connected, the Hermes Agent model will appear in your application, and you can start chatting with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following steps demonstrate how to connect with Open WebUI.

1. Open WebUI, click your profile icon and select **Admin Panel**.
2. Go to **Settings** > **Connections**.
3. On the right of **Manage OpenAI API Connections**, click <span class="material-symbols-outlined">add</span> to add a new connection.
4. Configure the settings as follows:
    - **API Base URL**: Enter your Hermes Gateway API URL and append `/v1`. For example, `https://baf3d7172.olaresdemo.olares.com/v1`.
    - **Auth**: Select **Bearer**, and then enter the `HERMES_API_SERVER_KEY` you set previously.
5. Click the refresh button to check the connection, and then click **Save**.
6. Go to the **New chat** page and verify that **hermes-agent** appears in the model drop-down list. You can start chatting with it now.
```

The Hermes CLI in the Olares environment does not support `sudo` commands. Ignore any steps in the official documentation that require `sudo` privileges.
:::

> ## Install Olares Skills

Reviewer: Install Olares skills

### Step 2: Find the Gateway API URL

1. Go back to **Settings** > **Applications** > **Hermes Agent**.
2. Find the **Hermes Gateway API** URL and copy it. For example:

   ```
   https://baf3d7172.olarestest003.olares.com
   ```

### Step 3: Verify the API is running

Open your browser and navigate to:

```
https://<your-gateway-url>/health
```

If enabled successfully, you will see a response confirming the API is running.

### Step 4: Connect from another application

1. Open the application you want to connect (for example, OpenWebUI).
2. Navigate to the admin panel and select **Connection** or **Models**.
3. Add a new OpenAI-compatible model entry with the following settings:
   - **Base URL**: Your Hermes Gateway API URL + `/v1`
     - For example: `https://baf3d7172.olarestest003.olares.com/v1`
   - **Auth**: Select **Bearer** and enter the `API_SERVER_KEY` you set in Step 1.
4. Click the refresh button next to the toggle to check the connection.

5. Once connected, the Hermes Agent model will appear in your application, and you can start chatting with it.

![Connect OpenWebUI](/images/manual/use-cases/hermes-openwebui-connection.png#bordered)

> ## FAQ: Gateway API fails to start

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Why does the gateway fail to start after configuring the API?

If you experience a connection failure (for example, `upstream connect error...`) when accessing the Gateway API and see the error `[Api_Server] Refusing to start: API_SERVER_KEY is set to a placeholder value` in the system logs, the configured API key does not meet Hermes security requirements.

To resolve this issue, reset your API key. Ensure the new key is at least 8 characters long and contains only alphanumeric characters and the `-`, `_`, or `.` symbols. After you update the key, restart the gateway.
```

    Open Control Hub, and then go to **Browse** > **{username}** > **hermesagent-{username}** > **Deployments** > **hermesagent**, and then click **Restart** in the upper-right corner. This method completely restarts the entire service, which takes slightly longer.

### Why does the gateway fail to start after configuring the API?

**Symptom**
- Gateway API access shows "upstream connect error".
- Logs display: `[Api_Server] Refusing to start: API_SERVER_KEY is set to a placeholder value`

**Cause**

The API key does not meet Hermes security requirements.

**Solution**

Reset the API key in **Settings** > **Applications** > **Hermes Agent** with a value that:
- Is at least 8 characters long.
- Contains only letters, numbers, and common symbols

> - Is not a common placeholder value like `your_api_key`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your gateway will fail to start if the configured API key does not meet Hermes security requirements. When this happens:
- The Gateway API displays an `upstream connect error`.
- The system logs show the message `[Api_Server] Refusing to start: API_SERVER_KEY is set to a placeholder value`.

To resolve this issue, reset your `HERMES_API_SERVER_KEY`:
1. Open Olares Settings, and then go to **Applications** > **Hermes Agent** > ****.
2. Set a new key for `HERMES_API_SERVER_KEY` that meets the following requirements:

    - It must be at least 8 characters long.
    - It can only contain letters, numbers, and these symbols (`-`, `_`, `.`).
    - It cannot be a predictable placeholder value, such as `your_api_key`.
    
 3. Click **Save**, and then click **Apply**.
```
